Dear all,
As your 'Introduction to statistical modelling using R' course is almost upon us I thought I would let you know a little more about the course and some logistical arrangements.

The overall aim of this course is to introduce you to analysing real data, like your own, by fitting statistical models to help you answer your research questions. It also aims to promote a structured approach to statistical data analysis to give you the confidence you need to get started with analysing your own data. Attending this course will provide you with the necessary theory and practical experience to identify plausible models for different types of data (and questions), evaluate the quality of the model fit and its limitations, and finally interpret the model outputs. During the course, particular emphasis will be placed on developing workflows which underpin robust and reproducible research and this course will also provide a foundation for subsequent courses on more advanced methods. Broadly speaking the course will cover graphical data exploration, an introduction to linear modelling (regression and ANOVA type designs), model validation and interpretation. See the following link for a course timetable:

https://alexd106.github.io/QUADstats/syllabus.html
The course will run for three full days from 5th - 7th February and start at 09:30 each morning and finish around 17:00. The course will comprise a mixture of pre-recorded videos covering statistical theory and live practical sessions (see the syllabus) where you will be able to work through a series of case-study based exercises to help put theory into practice. We will run the live sessions using Blackboard Collaborate where you will have the opportunity to ask any questions you may have and also get immediate one-to-one help if you get stuck. We will be using MyAberdeen and Blackboard collaborate as we did in your previous Introduction to R course. 

And you can access MyAberdeen by following this link:
https://abdn.blackboard.com/

You will need to use your University of Aberdeen student account to log onto MyAberdeen. For those students based at QUB you should have already been provided with these account details. If not, or, if you’re having problems accessing MyAberdeen please contact Izzie (quadrat@abdn.ac.uk) as soon as possible. Please try to access the course MyAberdeen site (and take a look around) before the course starts as I will have very limited time to try and troubleshoot access issues on the day.
We have designed this course to be very hands on with the vast majority of your time spent in live Blackboard collaborate sessions where you will be able to ask questions and get real-time one to one help if you get stuck whilst working through the exercises. You can access the exercises (and some additional information) using this link:

https://alexd106.github.io/QUADstats/index.html

One last thing before the course starts next week. Can you please take a moment and make sure you have installed the latest versions of R and RStudio on your computer. Full instructions (including a video) can be found at this link:

https://alexd106.github.io/QUADstats/setup.html

Ok, that's about it. I’ll see you all in our first live Blackboard collaborate session at 09:30 on Wednesday 5th.  To access this session, log on to MyAberdeen (https://abdn.blackboard.com), click on the ‘Courses’ link,  then click on the ‘QUADRAT Statistics 2025’ course link. If you can't see the course listed then try to search for 'QUADRAT' in the 'search your courses' search bar at the top. Once you have accessed the course website click on the ‘Join Session’ link on the right-hand side and then ‘Course Room'. If for any reason you cannot attend this course then please let both myself and Izzie know as soon as possible.

If you have any further questions or if something isn’t working for you please get in touch (a.douglas@abdn.ac.uk).

I look forward to seeing you all again next week.
Cheers
Alex